##  The Easiest React Hook

>   videoLink: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_vwCKV7f_eA
>   blogLink: https://blog.webdevsimplified.com/2022-06/use-id/

This will help on setting different id's on a component that is used multiple times.

import { useId } from 'react';

function EmailForm(){
    const id = useID()
}

return (
    <>
        <label htmlFor=`${id}-email`>Email</label>
        <input id=`${id}-email` type='email' />
        <br />
        <label htmlFor = `${id}-email`>Name</label>
        <input id=`${id}-email` type='text' />
    </>
)

this will result on different ids for each element that needs one, and it will automtacally will be assigned.


# how useId works!

The main use case of the [useId] hook is to generate unique ids for use within HTML elements. The best example of this would be to create an id for an input and have a label point to the same id. For example, if you had an [EmailForm] component you could write it like so.

function EmailForm() {
  return (
    <>
      <label htmlFor="email">Email</label>
      <input id="email" type="email" />
    </>
  )
}

This code would work, but if you try to render this form on the same page multiple times you will have multiple input elements with the same id of email. This is obviously bad since every id on a page should be unique and on top of that your labels when clicked on will now all focus the first email input on the page instead of the email input associated with that label. To fix this we can use [useId].

function EmailForm() {
>  const id = useId()
  return (
    <>
>      <label htmlFor={id}>Email</label>
>      <input id={id} type="email" />
    </>
  )
}

#   Getting Elements With querySelector

One thing to note about the useId hook is that the ids generated by it are invalid selectors to use with the [querySelector] method. This is intentional since React does not want you to select the elements by their id using something like [querySelector]. Instead you should use the [useRef] hook for this.

#   Using Multiple Ids In One Components

One important thing to note about this hook is you should only use it once per component. This will help with performance and still give you the benefits you want from the hook.

function LogInForm() {
  const id = useId()
  return (
    <>
      <div>
>        <label htmlFor={`${id}-email`}>Email</label>
>        <input id={`${id}-email`} type="email" />
      </div>
      <div>
>        <label htmlFor={`${id}-password`}>Password</label>
>        <input id={`${id}-password`} type="password" />
      </div>
    </>
  )
}

As the above example, we used the [useID] hook and we attach the blockname, so we dont have any performance issue.

